# Worksheet 6: Version Control

## Instructions

1. In your own words, what is version (or source) control?

Version control is a method of production implemented in a tool like Git. Version control can be used by individuals, but it is a particularly powerful tool for peer production. It enables low-cost integration from multiple contributors, reversion to earlier project versions, and forking from a common branch to develop variations on the original project.

2. Explain the difference between Git and GitHub.

Git is a powerful version control tool. Github is simply a company that remotely hosts your code for free if it is open source, and for a fee if it is proprietary.

3. In a few sentences, explain what a "commit" is?

A 'commit' is a record of all changes that have been made within the git directory since the initialization of the git log or since the last commit. These changes may include added files, deleted files, renamed files, or modified files.

4. What is a "branch" in Git terms?

A branch is simply a log of git commits. When there a new branch is created on an existing repo, the existing branch and the new branch are identical, but changes made and committed in one will not be made to the other branch. In this way multiple versions of the same files may exist, allowing for experimentation and contribution by multiple users.

5. What is a repository? Explain what happens when you "push" to and "pull"
   from a repository.

A repository is simply another name for a directory. In the context of Git, a repository is a directory within which there may be multiple branches, and within which all changes are monitored and (if the user chooses) committed. A local repository that has been cloned from some other (usually remote) repository can "push" changes made in the local repository to the remote repository, meaning that changes made to the local repository since the clone operation or since the last "push" are committed to the remote repository. "Pull" is simply the inverse of this operation. If one repository is "ahead" of another, those additional commits can be "pulled" to the repository that is behind.

6. What is involved in the "clone" operation?

The clone operation copies everything within the repository being cloned to a new location. __This includes the .git directory within the repo__, meaning that the cloned directory, while not a connected "branch" that can be "merged" with the original repo, maintains that original repo's git log up until the moment of the clone operation, and can be "pushed" to the original repo.

7. Find an example of Git being used for a peer production project. In several
   paragraphs answer the following: Who are they? What do they do? Who
maintains the repository? What are the rules for contributing?

Git is used extensively by the tos;dr project, which uses community-sourced review of website terms of service in an effort to remedy "the biggest lie on the web": "I have read and agree to the terms of service." While tos;dr uses a different platform for the actual process of reviewing and rating sites based on their ToS, the project uses github to host its own site, as well as the code for its browser extensions.

The project has a team of core contributors listed on its website—all of whom donate their time to the project. Anyone can contribute directly to the repository (if their pull request is accepted) in order to fix some particular bug or add a new feature to the website or plugins. The website ToS ratings are committed by the core team that manages the repository, but those ratings are based entirely on accumulated community-sourced review of ToS.

8. Submit this worksheet by filing a pull request to our Github repository.

